Greetings, brothers and sisters.
Our next music video presentation is about to begin.
As you watch it, please reflect on how you can imitate the faith of your brothers and sisters.
Please enjoy the presentation.
Welcome to this session of our Powerful by Faith Convention, which corresponds to the Sunday morning session and your
printed program.
The theme is Jesus' promise recorded at Matthew 21-21, which says in part,
if you have faith, it will happen.
We invite you to sing together song number 137, faithful women Christian sisters.
Again, that song number 137.
Sadly, some consider women as being inferior to men and of little worth.
How untrue.
As we'll see in this eight-part symposium, there is a bunch that we can learn from women of faith.
Each speaker will introduce the one to follow.
To begin, let's give our attention to brother Kenneth Cook and member of the governing body.
As he presents the talk entitled, imitate women of strong faith, Sarah.
In our life experience, there are many people we do not forget, both good and bad.
But those we delight to call to mind or remember are the people most important and most love to us.
This is true of Jehovah as well.
He knows everyone who has ever lived, righteous and unrighteous, and he will resurrect millions of them.
But what he finds the greatest delight in is remembering those with strong faith who became his friends, including many faithful women.
His word is filled with accounts of women who had strong faith.
This symposium will consider faithful women from the past with various backgrounds.
We will learn why they needed faith, how they showed faith, and how all of us can imitate their faith.
We begin with the faithful woman, Sarah.
Sarah needed faith. Why?
Well, because like her husband, Abraham, Sarah accepted a nomadic lifestyle when Jehovah directed them to do so.
Hebrews 118 says of Abraham that by faith, he obeyed by going out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance, although not knowing where he was going.
What was true for Abraham was true for Sarah as well.
Along with Abraham, she complied with Jehovah's direction and she left the prosperous city of Er.
She no doubt had to leave behind her relatives, as well as material advantages.
We read at Genesis 12 and verse 1 that Abraham was told,
go out from your land and away from your relatives.
Such moves are never easy.
Actually, moving is known to be one of the most stressful things that people must do at times, especially when it involves moving away from friends and relatives.
Yes, Sarah needed faith and she had it.
She cooperated with her husband's direction, which meant accepting a completely different way of life.
Her obedience revealed her strong faith in Jehovah.
As you watch the following video, imagine the challenges that Sarah faced.
Life in Er was comfortable.
We had all the modern conveniences.
Then Jehovah gave us an assignment we never expected.
One that meant saying goodbye to the life we loved.
But rather than look behind, Abraham and I looked ahead.
We had seen Jehovah's hand in our lives and we knew he would be with us every step of the journey.
And he was in ways that surprised us.
Ways we never could have imagined.
Jehovah did more than help us. He fulfilled his every promise.
As accurately depicted in that video, how did Sarah show faith?
She showed faith by looking ahead.
She also reflected on what Jehovah had already done for them.
Abraham and Sarah had seen Jehovah's hand in their lives.
They were his friends. They obeyed before.
And Jehovah had confidence in their obedience now.
As a woman of strong faith, Sarah trusted that Jehovah would continue to be with them in their new assignment.
She willingly gave up the comforts and conveniences of her.
And her faith in God did not go unrewarded.
In time, she received a blessing that she never could have anticipated.
Sarah's faith in Jehovah led to the birth of Isaac.
What made this blessing especially remarkable is described for us at Hebrews chapter 11 verses 11 and 12.
Let's read those verses.
Hebrews chapter 11 lists a number of faithful servants of God.
Sarah is mentioned along with Abraham.
As we read starting in verse 11, notice how the focus is on faith.
By faith, also Sarah received power to conceive offspring,
even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who made the promise.
For this reason, from one man who was as good as dead, there were born children,
as many as the stars of heaven in number and as innumerable as the sands by the seaside.
So what remarkable blessing did Sarah receive as a result of her faith?
The power to conceive offspring even when she was past the age it said.
But how specifically did she show faith?
She showed faith because she considered him faithful who had made the promise.
Sarah had faith in Jehovah's promise that Abraham would become the father to many.
Abraham needed faith, but so did Sarah.
And because they both had such faith, verse 12 says,
for this reason there were born children.
Now some might say, but I recall from the scriptures that Sarah laughed when she heard that she would give birth.
True, but was that because she lacked faith?
Not at all.
We read a moment ago that Sarah considered Jehovah faithful.
In other words, she trusted him. So what happened?
We evidently the thought of giving birth at her age struck her as being so unusual that she could not hold back laughing to herself.
So while she was only all too human, she was undeniably a woman of strong faith.
Years later, Sarah's faith in Jehovah's promise concerning Isaac moved her to speak up when five-year-old Isaac was persecuted or bullied by 19-year-old Ishmael.
She saw a real threat to the well-being of Isaac, and her faith reminded her that Isaac was more than just her son.
He was assigned a key role in Jehovah's purpose, so she mustered up courage and spoke up in his defense.
Strong faith helps us to do many things.
In the following dramatization, take note of how a husband and wife show faith like that of Abraham and Sarah.
Saying goodbye?
It's never easy.
And even though we were excited about our new LDC assignment, it was going to take us further than we'd ever been.
It wasn't just a new routine.
It was a whole new way of life.
With each new move and project, we thought about Sarah.
She focused on the good things ahead.
And not on what she had left behind.
And that's what we tried to do.
Jehovah's been so good to us.
We didn't always know where the next project would take us.
But we did know that Jehovah would be with us every step of the way.
As demonstrated in that video, we can strengthen our faith by meditating on Jehovah's goodness to his people in the past and his goodness to his people today.
Take time to meditate on how Jehovah has helped you when you've made sacrifices in his service.
As the sister in the video stated, Sarah focused on the good things ahead and not on what she had left behind.
We show faith like that of Sarah's when we support the decisions that are made by God's organization today.
Imitate Sarah's faith and follow Jehovah's direction closely.
When we are obedient to Jehovah's direction, then as Hebrews 13, 17 states,
the brothers may carry out their responsibilities with joy and not with sign.
For married sisters, this means displaying a Sarah-like spirit in their marriage.
A Christian wife respects and supports her husband in doing Jehovah's will.
The Apostle Peter wrote that such a spirit has great value in the eyes of God.
What are some of the many ways in which sisters today display faith like Sarah's?
Well, many Christian women of strong faith are supportive of their husbands in the circuit work.
Many others leave family behind when accepting an assignment from local design construction or the school for kingdom evangelizers.
And many sisters serving at Bethel do so far away from their families.
And this is true of single sisters as well.
All of these and many more show Sarah-like faith by trusting in Jehovah's loving care
and making themselves available in his service.
We are confident that Jehovah sees these acts of faith.
Hebrews 13, 16 says that God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
So see their example and imitate their faith.
Brother James Mance, a helper to the writing committee, will now present the next talk in this symposium.
Imitate women of strong faith, Rahab.
Two Israelite men sneak into the city of Jericho.
The men are spies.
They take refuge in a place where they feel no one will notice them.
The home of a prostitute, Rahab.
And little does Rahab know how the visit of these two men will affect her life.
But someone recognizes the spies and they notify the king.
The king sends men to take the spies into custody.
As the king's men bang on the door, Rahab is confronted with a life or death decision,
a decision that will affect her livelihood and the lives of everyone in her family.
Will she take a stand for Jehovah's people?
Or will she side with the king of Jericho?
As you watch the following video, imagine the challenges that Rahab faced
and notice what helped her to make a life-saving decision.
Jericho was doomed.
People were scared.
When the Israelite men showed up at my door, there was barely time to think.
But I knew what was at stake.
Even as a young girl, I had heard all the stories.
Jehovah wasn't like the other gods.
He had dried up the waters of the Red Sea and given his people victory over the Emirates.
If I helped these men, I knew Jehovah would help me.
For the first time in my life, I was standing with Jehovah's people on Jehovah's side.
And my faith was being rewarded.
The spies were probably the first Israelites that Rahab had ever met.
But she was convinced that if she helped the two men, that Jehovah would help her.
Why did she feel that way?
Please open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11 and we're going to read verse 31.
And here we find the answer to that question in a single word.
Hebrews 11-31 says,
By faith, Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who acted disobediently because she received the spies in a peaceable way.
Yes, Rahab took a decisive stand based on her faith in what she had heard about Jehovah,
how he had delivered his people at the Red Sea, how he had given them victories over nearby kings.
The account in Joshua chapter 2 describes the significant sequence of events.
Rahab had already hidden the spies on her roof before the kingsmen arrived.
And after sending the kingsmen away, she went back up to the roof to talk to the spies.
There she explained to them the reasons for her faith.
And she expressed confidence that Jehovah is the true God
and that Jehovah would give his people victory over Jericho.
Only then did she ask the spies for protection for herself and her family.
So Rahab's faith was not based on the promise of a reward.
Rather, her faith was based on her firm conviction that Jehovah is the Almighty God.
Rahab's faith gave her courage to hide and protect the spies.
And then her faith moved her to obey the spies on usual instructions.
In the following dramatization, notice how a young Bible student shows faith like that of Rahab.
There was no doubt about it. I had found the truth.
So why did I feel so anxious? I knew how mom felt about the holidays.
But I also learned how Jehovah felt. They displeased him.
Some changes in my life were easy to make. But I really needed Jehovah's help for what I had to do next.
I loved my mom so much. When I explained that I wouldn't celebrate the holidays anymore,
I could tell that she was hurt. But I knew I was doing the right thing.
And prayed that Jehovah would help her understand.
Holiday season like no other, like this 36 megapixel DSLR camera kit for just $3.99.
Or would you believe this 65-inch 4K UHG Smart TV is only $8.49?
Hurry in before it's gone because the...
I admit I was surprised when she said she wanted to learn more.
What a blessing.
Thanks to Jehovah, I have found the truth. And now maybe my family would find it too.
Like Rahab, this Bible student had already identified the true God.
She was convinced that she had found the truth. But now she needed to act on that faith.
And she was blessed when she took a stand on Jehovah's side.
Each of us must ask ourselves, am I standing firmly on Jehovah's side?
Perhaps you feel that you don't have enough knowledge to take a stand?
If so, imitate Rahab and do not hesitate.
What little knowledge Rahab had about Jehovah was enough to give her faith
that moved her to take prompt, obedient action.
But Rahab had to do more than protect the spies and follow their instructions.
James chapter 2, verse 25, states that Rahab was declared righteous by her works.
Remember, she was a prostitute, a work that is not in harmony with Jehovah's righteous standards.
The Canaanites didn't view prostitution as something bad.
However, in order to be accepted as one of Jehovah's clean worshipers,
Rahab had to abandon her immoral way of life.
Likewise today, all who want to please Jehovah must abandon any lifestyles or conduct that displeases him.
This includes sexual immorality, idolatry, theft, drunkenness,
and customs that are not in harmony with the Scriptures.
Rahab and her family certainly were grateful that her faithful actions led to their salvation.
But that wasn't all that Jehovah did to bless this woman of strong faith.
She also had the privilege of becoming an ancestor of the Messiah, Jesus Christ.
Therefore, may all of us imitate the faith of Rahab and may that faith move us to action,
to abandon immoral conduct and false religious customs, to take our stand for Jehovah and his pure worship,
to continue to grow in knowledge of God and to draw closer to Him as our loving Heavenly Father.
If we show faith like that of Rahab, we will enjoy Jehovah's favor and blessing forever.
Brother Ken Flodin, a helper to the Teaching Committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium,
imitate women of strong faith, Hannah.
In the third talk of this convention, Brother Numeir asked,
have you experienced financial setback?
Has your child faced peer pressure and we could add or bullying in school?
Do you have a life-threatening disease?
We'd like to continue that list.
Do you face scorn from workmates?
Do you have a personality issue with someone?
Do family members taunt you?
Was we deal with various trials?
We might recall the words of Paul.
He said, the way I'm aiming my blows is so as not to be striking the air.
Well, how do we counteract the adversities of this system?
Please find 1 Samuel 1.
Hannah had two adversities,
and they were like, boom, boom, one, two punch, designed to drop her for the count.
The first one is in verse 2 of chapter 1.
Now, Hannah had two wives.
One was named Hannah, and the other was named Pininna.
Well, that's polygamy.
And Pininna loathed, she hated Hannah.
But what was the second problem?
It continues, Pininna had children,
but Hannah had no children.
Hannah was barren.
And in that culture, this was a bitter reproach for a woman.
Well, it was devious, uncouth, Pininna really like.
Let's read verse 6.
Moreover, her rival wife pondered her relentlessly in order to upset her.
She did this on purpose, because Jehovah had not given her children.
And look at the end of verse 7.
Her rival would taunt her so much that Hannah would weep and not eat.
As you watch the following artwork, imagine Hannah's distressing circumstance
and then how faith turned it all around.
I couldn't sleep or eat.
I felt my hopes and dreams slipping away.
But even if no one else really understood me, I knew Jehovah would.
I told him everything.
I knew that the God of justice would set all matters right in his own time and in his own way.
Jehovah answered my prayer in such a wonderful way.
I never forgot where this incredible blessing had come from.
There is no rock like our God.
Did you see the grief on Hannah's face in that first picture?
The next piece of art, she's peaceful in tranquil.
And she's voicing her faith in Jehovah her rock.
From despair to calmness of heart, how did that happen?
Versus 10 and 11.
She demonstrated faith in several ways.
And we can do the same as we face our own boom, boom, one, two punch of trials and frustrations of life.
Verse 10.
Hannah was extremely bitter and she began to pray to Jehovah and to weep uncontrollably.
She was extremely bitter, but she prayed.
She cried uncontrollably, but she prayed to Jehovah.
In your agonizing circumstances, no matter how agitated, find a quiet place.
If only in your mind and pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Well, how else did Hannah show her faith?
Well, in that very prayer, she did ask Jehovah for a blessing,
but she also promised to give him something in return.
Verse 11.
And she made this vow.
O Jehovah of armies, if you look upon the affliction of your servant and remember me,
and you do not forget your servant, and give to your servant a male child,
I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor will touch his head.
Yes, she was going to give her son as a Nazareth from birth to serve Jehovah all his days,
a sterling example of faith.
Well, what else likely strengthened Hannah's faith?
Examples of faithful women who came before her, with similar circumstances.
Do you remember Rachel and her sister, Leah?
They were both married to Jacob, and like Hannah, Rachel had no children.
And there were issues between the two because of this.
But you see, Hannah could look back on that example and see how Jehovah helped faithful Rachel to prosper.
It bolstered her faith.
Well, what's another way that Hannah showed faith?
Well, despite being distraught, so distraught that she would weep and could not eat,
she continued her spiritual routine.
Verse 7 says that she would go the tabernacle faithfully year after year.
13 through 16, she was misjudged by the high priest, but she continued her spiritual routine.
Now, as we said at the outset, the punches that life throws us are different from Hannah's,
but we too can have the same strong faith that she did.
Now, in the following dramatization, though the trial is different,
note how the sister shows faith like that of Hannah.
I could tell from the doctor's voice the news wasn't good.
I just didn't expect my health to worsen so quickly.
I tried to act like everything was fine, but I was fine.
I wasn't.
Going to Jehovah, knowing he would listen and understand that's what got me through.
No one really knew what I was going through.
Not even my friends.
I felt like Hannah totally misunderstood.
But she had faith that Jehovah would set matters straight.
And he did.
For Hannah and for me, but more than that,
he reminded me that I wouldn't have to deal with this illness alone.
The sister's circumstances were different,
but she drew strength from Hannah's strong faith in Jehovah.
No matter what the circumstances are,
how can we imitate the example of that faith?
Well, there's many different ways, but let's review a few.
First Peter 5.9, Satan tries to beat us up and knock us down,
but we're not alone.
There are others who experience the same trials.
First Peter 5.9,
but take your stand against him, firm in the faith,
knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced
by the entire association of your brothers in the world.
Reflect on Jehovah's dealings with other faithful ones,
both in the past and in the present day.
Now in 1 Samuel 112, it says that Hannah prayed for a long time
before Jehovah.
We too can gain relief through fervent, persistent,
and specific prayers.
Colossians 4 says persevere in prayer.
When we pray to Jehovah,
leave it with him, confident that he will help.
And recall that Hannah was extremely bitter.
She was crying uncontrollably.
But after she poured her feelings out to Jehovah,
verse 18 says,
she went on her way and ate,
and her face was no longer downcast.
And then after Jehovah acted in her behalf,
Hannah remembered that,
and she went back to Jehovah in prayer
and prayed the beautiful prayer in 1 Samuel 2.
Finally, like Hannah,
even if discouraged,
we need to maintain a good spiritual routine.
If we allow distress to paralyze us,
in effect, we become a stationary punching bag for Satan.
Stay nimble on your feet spiritually,
active in your theocratic routine.
And like Paul, aim your blows.
Do not strike the air.
Fight back against Satan and his tactics.
If we do all these things,
our bond with Jehovah will grow ever stronger.
And,
Jehovah will reward our faith like he did for Hannah.
And now, Brother Harold Corcoran,
a helper for the publishing committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium,
imitate women of strong faith,
the captive Israelite girl.
In the 11th century BCE,
the nation of Syria would often attack Israel,
capturing many and making many of their slaves,
even children.
Notice how the Bible describes one of these raids
at 2 Kings chapter 5.
2 Kings chapter 5,
and in verse 1,
we are told that Naomi was the army chief of the Syrians.
He was a mighty warrior,
but he was also very sick with leprosy.
But notice verse 2.
On wonder of their raids,
the Syrians had taken captive from the land of Israel,
a little girl,
who became a servant to Naaman's wife.
Can you picture this little girl being ripped away
from her parents?
It was frightening for her.
She was taken to a strange land
with people that were intimidating,
and they worshipped many false gods.
In that very difficult circumstance,
how was this little girl required
to exercise strong faith?
Please note the answer to this question
and the following video.
I remember the day the soldiers took me away.
I had never felt more alone.
My home, my friends,
everything I knew was gone.
But I still had Jehovah.
The master of the house was very sick.
He was in pain.
Elijah could help him.
I had heard about Elijah's miracles.
He had even raised the dead.
I knew Elijah could cure him,
and Jehovah gave me the courage to speak up.
Despite being away from her parents,
this little girl exercised strong faith.
Where did she get that faith?
Well, no doubt her parents had inculcated
love and trust for Jehovah in her.
But she also had things that were happening
in her lifetime that would build her faith.
For example, she would have known
about the miracles of the prophet Elijah.
And how was Jehovah's Spirit?
He performed many miracles,
including raising a little boy from the dead.
This little girl could have reason.
Why if Jehovah can raise a little boy from death?
He can certainly cure my master from his disease.
Well, what did she do with this faith and trust?
She spoke up courageously.
Notice her words to her mistress
as recorded at Second Kings chapter 5 and verse 3.
She said to her mistress,
if only my Lord would visit the prophet in Samaria,
then He would cure him of his laprosy.
Such bonus.
And because she spoke up,
Naman went to Israel,
God in touch with Elijah the prophet,
humbled himself,
listened to the instructions,
and was completely cured of the laprosy.
But something else very important occurred.
Because of Naman coming to know about Jehovah,
what did he declare?
At Second Kings 5, 15, he said,
Now I know there is no God anywhere in the earth,
but in Israel.
And Naman also vowed that he would never serve any other gods,
but Jehovah.
How happy Naman and his entire household was when he went home.
Not only was he cured of his laprosy,
but now he was a happy, joyful servant of Jehovah.
Well, it's not just in Bible times
that good experiences like this have occurred.
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice how one of our sisters
shows strong faith
even under the most difficult of circumstances.
I was taken from my home,
my husband,
and my spiritual family.
I was imprisoned for my faith.
It was another world.
It wasn't easy staying strong.
Every time I asked for a Bible,
the answer was no.
But God's word was already in my heart.
So I did what I loved the most.
I talked about God's kingdom.
Many of those I preached to seemed cold at first.
But genuine love and the warmth of God's word
just seemed to melt their hearts.
Sometimes speaking up took more courage than I thought I had.
But not more courage than Jehovah could give me.
It was hard to look beyond the locks and uniforms.
But God's will is that all sorts of people learn about him.
So I spoke about my God, Jehovah.
I knew that even behind prison bars,
Jehovah would give me the strength to help others.
At this point, we'd like to address our young ones in the audience.
You too can have strong faith
like the little Israelite girl
and tell others about Jehovah.
Remember the words of Romans chapter 10 verses 13 and 14?
It is so important that people know about Jehovah.
But how can they know about him and gain salvation
if there's no one to preach?
You too can become a bold and faithful preacher of the good news.
How?
By taking in Bible truths and building up strong faith in your heart.
And then you'll be able to do like our sister did in the dramatization.
Remember what she said?
I had God's word in my heart and as a result,
even in prison, when I was surrounded by all those difficulties,
I did what I loved to do talk about God's kingdom.
Another thing you can do is pray for more courage and faith.
Remember what our sister said?
It seemed that at times to speak up required more courage than I had.
But not more courage than Jehovah could give me.
So dear young ones, don't be afraid to talk about Jehovah and the truth
to your schoolmates, to your unbelieving relatives, to your teachers.
Good results will happen, for example.
There is an experience of a schoolteacher here in the United States
who had been searching for the basic questions as to the meaning of life,
but she could not find them.
But then her 12-year-old student at school asked the teacher three questions,
the first question.
Do you know I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Yes.
Would you like to learn more about Jehovah's Witnesses?
Third question?
Where do you live?
Our 12-year-old sister started a study with her teacher.
The teacher loved what she was hearing,
made excellent progress and was baptized.
That sister, the former schoolteacher,
has been serving Jehovah now for many decades.
In fact, for the last 40 years,
she has been serving as a member of the United States Bethel family.
So blessings come when we speak up and show strong faith.
Remember in the case of the little Israelite girl,
Naman would have never gone to Israel if she had not spoken up.
And as a result, he was cured,
but also became a servant of Jehovah.
So in harmony with the strong faith of that captive Israelite girl,
may Jehovah give all of us the courage we need to display our strong faith,
even under the most stressful and even frightening circumstances.
Brother Jeffrey Jackson will now consider the next talk of this symposium,
imitate women of strong faith, Mary, the mother of Jesus.
Jehovah chose the young woman Mary for a difficult assignment.
It was a unique assignment, one that required great faith.
It was to care for and raise the only begotten Son of God, Jesus Christ.
What an amazing privilege that was.
And yet it required strong faith on the part of Mary,
not only because this was a very serious responsibility
that would involve quite a number of years,
but initially, Mary before accepting this assignment,
had some concerns no doubt.
One of them would have been the concern with regard to the reaction
of her friends, neighbors, relatives,
yes, of course, her fiance Joseph.
After all, the angel didn't say to her, don't worry,
I'll go and inform this of all the, to all the ones involved
so that they don't get upset.
So it was a very difficult and overwhelming assignment for Mary.
Can you imagine how she approached this assignment?
Well, to help us do that, let's watch this short video.
I was engaged to Mary Joseph.
I thought we would have a simple and quiet life,
and then suddenly everything changed.
I know that God sometimes asks us to do what is difficult,
but this seemed impossible beyond anything we could handle,
but I knew I was safe in Jehovah's hands.
If we remained loyal to Him and did our best to care for His precious Son,
He would always be loyal to us and give us what we needed.
Yes, when we think of Mary's situation,
all she was interested in was having a quiet, simple life,
then suddenly everything changed for her.
And it may have seemed impossible for her to be able to accept that assignment.
And yet, what was her reaction?
Well, please, take your Bibles and turn with me to the first chapter of Luke.
And verse 38.
Luke chapter 1 and verse 38.
There we see Mary's reaction.
Look, Jehovah's slave girl, may it happen to me according to your declaration.
Yes, in full faith and with humility, she accepted this difficult assignment.
She knew that Jehovah would be with her and that he would help her.
But what was it that gave Mary such a strong faith?
Well, we get a clue if we look down in the same chapter, but verse 46.
So that's Luke chapter 1 and verse 46.
And we're not going to read the verse, but the study note associated with the verse.
Notice it says, Mary's words have praised the following verses 46 through 55,
contain well over 20 references to or illusions to the Hebrew Scriptures.
Mary's words give evidence of her spirituality and her knowledge of the Scriptures.
They show her appreciative attitude.
Her words also reveal the depth of her faith as she spoke of Jehovah
as a basing the Hordean powerful and as helping the lowly and poor who seek to serve Him.
Yes, Mary's faith was based on her knowledge of God's Word of the Holy Scriptures that she had.
But it seems that she didn't have personal copies of these writings.
Rather, she must have memorized what she heard being read at the synagogue.
So Mary's heart was full of all of these expressions from the Hebrew Scriptures.
So much so that when she spontaneously praised Jehovah, all these expressions came out
because she had treasured them in her heart.
So yes, Mary had strong faith that was based on the Holy writings,
and that is what made her qualified for this assignment.
Well, what about us?
How can we imitate this strong faith of Mary?
As we look at this dramatization, notice that although our assignments may be different,
we likewise need to have that same strong faith.
When they first told me, I thought it must have been a mistake.
I mean, me?
Oversee a department at an international convention.
I felt like it was just too much to handle.
I remembered that I thought the same thing years ago.
When I was asked to serve on a disaster relief committee,
and when I served on the hospital liaison committee,
actually, I've always felt that way when I've received an assignment from Jehovah.
But what I've learned is, he's always ready to help.
So when Jehovah asked me to do something that seems difficult,
I just remind myself to pray, stay loyal, and have faith.
He'll give me what I need.
Did you feel sorry for that young brother?
Perhaps we can really understand his expressions.
When they told me of the assignment, I thought it was a mistake.
No doubt some of us have felt the same way at times too.
But what helped this young brother?
Well, he remembered how Jehovah had helped him in similar situations in the past.
Remember how he thought back to the time when he was with the disaster committee?
And there he was standing as a young man and all these other men looking to him for some direction.
That was very overwhelming.
And then what about when he was to make the presentation as a HLC member?
Remember sitting there in a corridor by himself and then this young woman ashes him into the room?
She didn't look very friendly at all, did she?
And certainly the medical staff didn't look very friendly.
So assignments like that can be overwhelming.
But what did the young brother say?
He said the things that helped him were prayer, stain loyal, and having faith.
Yes, like Mary, we likewise can have this strong faith that pleases Jehovah.
We need to display humility and have absolute confidence in Jehovah,
a type of confidence that's expressed in the book of Psalms.
Please turn with me to Psalm 56 and verses 3 and 4.
Psalm 56, verses 3 and 4.
When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God whose word I praise.
In God I put my trust, I am not afraid.
What can be a man due to me?
Yes, just like the Psalmist and just like Mary, we can have full confidence in Jehovah.
Yes, let us demonstrate this strong faith when we are faced with difficult assignments.
Trust the in Jehovah, knowing that he will bless us, the same as he blessed Mary.
The next part in our symposium will be handled by Brother Leonard Myers,
who's a helper to the writing committee.
He'll discuss the theme, imitate women of strong faith, the Phoenician woman.
After the Passover 32 CE, Jesus and his disciples were in Phoenicia of Syria,
north of the borders of Israel.
Even in this non-Israelite territory, Jesus couldn't escape notice.
Please open your Bibles to Matthew 15, and you may want to put a place marker there.
Matthew 15, starting in verse 22, a Greek woman, born in Phoenicia, found Jesus and begged him to heal her daughter.
The verse says that the girl was cruelly demon-possessed.
Well, verse 23 says that Jesus did not say a word and answer to the mother.
After a while, his disciples urged him, send her away because she keeps crying out after us.
The mother was persistent.
In response, Jesus explained his reason for ignoring her in verse 24.
I was not sent to anyone except to the law sheep of the house of Israel.
How would the woman respond?
Would Jesus seeming rejection discourager? Would she lose faith?
In the following video, look for evidence of the Phoenician woman's extraordinary faith.
No, I was not Jewish, but I saw that this Jesus was no ordinary man.
I had heard about his power to help others, and my daughter was suffering.
I wouldn't take no for an answer. I couldn't. This man was from God.
There was nowhere else to turn.
I had faith in Jesus.
When he heard me, he said, let it happen to you as you wish.
And then it did!
My beautiful, precious daughter was healthy and smiling again.
Because of her faith, the Phoenician woman overcame the fear of prejudice that could have prevented her from approaching Jesus.
Remember, she was of Greek descent. Jesus was Jewish.
But as stated in the video, she heard reports of Jesus' power to help others, and she realized that this man was from God.
Notice in verse 22, she addressed Jesus as Lord Son of David.
She publicly acknowledged that Jesus was the promised Messiah.
And even though at first he didn't respond to her, and then explained his reason for doing so, she didn't become discouraged.
Let's continue with the account in verse 25 to see the strong faith of this woman.
But the woman came and did obeisance to him saying, Lord, help me.
How Jesus must have been moved by the woman's heartfelt appeal.
Apparently though, Jesus wanted to test her faith.
Like a parent who plans to grant a child's request, but doesn't give an outward sign of that plan in order to test the child's seriousness, notice what Jesus tells her in verse 26.
It is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.
Among the Greeks and Romans, the dog was often a beloved pet that lived in its owner's house and played with the children.
The expression little dogs, or perhaps a house dog, might have reminded the woman of a warm and daring picture.
By likening the Israelites to children and non-Jews to little dogs, Jesus evidently wanted to indicate an order of priority.
In a household with both children and dogs, the children would be fed first.
So Jesus meant that he couldn't care for non-Israelites at the expense of deserving Jews.
Rather than take offense, the woman discerned the point of the illustration and humbly stated in verse 27.
Yes, Lord, but really, the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.
What a beautiful response.
And what was the result of the woman's remarkable faith? Verse 28.
Then Jesus replied to her,
Oh woman, great is your faith. Let it happen to you as you wish.
And her daughter was healed from that hour on.
The woman's faith was rewarded when Jesus healed her daughter.
What an example of strong faith.
In the following dramatization, note how someone who has just started to have a good relationship with God might need to display strong faith like that of the Phoenician woman.
I never thought it would happen. I finally found what I'd been searching for.
A good relationship with God.
Then one day, a coworker texted an article that claimed to expose Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was tempted to read it, and then I thought back to when I first met Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so excited about what they taught me from the Bible.
That God's name is Jehovah,
the kingdom is a real government, and so much more.
Why would I want to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies?
But my friends, not so much.
I saw people who really love one another.
It's a real brotherhood.
But it wasn't just the people. This was the truth.
I didn't need to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies.
I had seen for myself that the worshiped the true God, Jehovah.
Did you notice how the young man recognized and put faith in Jehovah's organization?
That was a protection, so he wasn't misled by lies from our enemies.
His faith might have reminded you of the Phoenician woman.
Remember, she recognized and put faith in Jehovah's representative, his son.
The question we need to consider is, how can we imitate the Phoenician woman's strong faith?
Like that woman, we need to recognize Jehovah's representatives and associate with them.
At Matthew 24.45, Jesus identified these representatives.
He foretold that in our day, he would use the faithful and discreet slave
to provide spiritual food at the proper time.
Why can we have strong faith that the governing body is filling that role of the faithful and discreet slave?
Consider three lines of evidence.
First, there's evidence of Holy Spirit guiding these brothers.
For example, Holy Spirit has helped the governing body to grasp scriptural truths not previously understood.
These brothers feel as the Apostle Paul, who wrote at 1 Corinthians 2.13,
these things we also speak, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the Spirit.
Second, we see evidence of angelic assistance.
The governing body has the immense task of overseeing an international preaching work involving over 8 million evangelizers.
The overall growth of the preaching and disciple-making work, despite fierce opposition in some lands, has been possible only with superhuman assistance.
A third line of evidence is Reliance on God's Word.
Some religions may revise teachings in order to appease beliefs and opinions of their members,
but our dear brothers of the governing body allow their decisions to be guided by God's Word rather than popular opinion.
We can have strong faith that Jehovah, through his son, is directing the governing body.
And we need to remain loyal to these faithful brothers and to Jehovah's organization, despite attempts by opposers to discredit them.
What will be the outcome if we do?
Think back to the example of the Phoenician woman.
Was she rewarded for her strong faith?
Yes, when her beloved daughter was healed.
Likewise, if you display strong faith and follow the direction of our leader, Jesus, he will lead you to everlasting life.
Where the William Malan font, a helper to the teaching committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Imitate women of strong faith, Martha.
Martha, Martha.
She was a hard-working, hospitable woman.
The Bible tells us that Jesus loved Martha and her sister Mary and their brother Lazarus.
When Lazarus took ill, Martha surely did everything in her power to soothe his discomfort.
She was so concerned with her brother's condition that she and her sister Mary sent a message to Jesus as recorded at John 113, saying,
Lord, see, the one for whom you have affection is sick.
Martha knew that Lazarus was seriously ill.
She must have felt helpless as Lazarus sank deeper into his illness and then died.
What would Martha do?
Would she give into despair and would grief overpower her and weaken her faith?
As you watch the following video, try to imagine Martha's grief when her brother died.
During those first few days, everything was a blur.
My sister Mary and I had never felt so empty and lost.
I knew that if our Lord had been here, our brother would not have died.
But through the tears and the pain, I had no doubt that the resurrection was real.
But someday, someday he would live again.
Who could have imagined it could happen that very day?
And right before our eyes, we wept here's joy and thanked our loving father in heaven, Jehovah.
Empathy helps us to feel the pain and the distress that Martha felt when Lazarus died.
The Bible account tells us that Jesus traveled to Bethany where Martha lived.
But he did not arrive before Lazarus died.
In fact, he came four days after Lazarus had died.
When Jesus met with Martha, she expressed faith that Jesus could have healed Lazarus.
And she felt that Jesus might yet help her brother.
The scriptures show that she also believed in the future resurrection.
Martha must have been thinking about miracles that Jesus had performed
and the people who had been healed by him.
And she had no doubt that Jesus was the Christ and that he could perform miracles.
Read with me what the Bible says about Martha's faith in the resurrection
and her confidence in Jesus.
It's found at John chapter 11 verses 21 through 26.
It reads as follows.
Martha then said to Jesus,
Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
She didn't say this to reproach Jesus. She merely stated a fact.
And then she goes on. She says, yet even now I know that whatever you ask God for,
God will give you.
Jesus said to her,
Your brother will rise.
Martha said to him,
I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.
Jesus said to her,
I am the resurrection and the life.
The one who exercises faith in me, even though he dies, will come to life.
And everyone who is living in exercises faith in me will never die at all.
Do you believe this?
In verse 27, Martha makes one of the most important statements that would ever pass her lips.
It reads,
She said to him,
Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the One coming into the world.
We can only imagine how much her faith was appreciated by Jesus.
Jesus Christ has the same appreciation for us as we show our faith in His promises.
In the following dramatization,
observe how a sister's faith brings her comfort.
I lost my son.
I lost part of myself.
I tried to stay busy,
but everything felt empty.
In my darkest times,
Jehovah's words brought me comfort.
Not a day goes by that I don't think about Brandon.
Not just memories of how it was.
But even more, how wonderful it will be to see him soon in God's new world.
We deeply sympathize with the sister in the video over the loss of her son,
and with any in the congregation that have suffered the loss of a loved one.
Did you take note of how the sister imitated Martha's faith
by putting her complete trust in Jehovah God and going to Him in prayer?
Like Martha, we can build our faith in the resurrection
by carefully considering all that God's Word says about it.
Think of all the evidence there is that Jesus was resurrected.
The scriptures show clearly that after His death and resurrection,
Jesus showed Himself alive to His disciples.
He also appeared to Saul of Tarsus who became the Apostle Paul.
In His letter to the Corinthians,
Paul points out that more than 500 brothers saw the resurrected Jesus.
And to show that it was not just hearsay,
Paul tells us that most of those eyewitnesses were still alive
when he wrote to the Corinthians.
Yes, they were living witnesses who could verify the fact that Jesus was resurrected from the dead.
And think about the inspired assurance that we have at Revelation 21, 3 and 4,
that the time is coming when death will be no more.
When you think about it, who is it that declares that death will be no more at Revelation 21, 3 and 4?
None other than the resurrected Jesus Christ.
We do well to imitate Martha by maintaining strong faith when we face the loss of a loved one.
No, it's not easy. It's painful.
But we can do it knowing full well that this life is not all there is.
All true Christians must have faith in the resurrection.
Faith that the dead will live again and that death will be done away with in God's new world.
Jehovah and his son rewarded the faith of Martha, Mary and Lazarus.
We will be rewarded too if we build strong faith like that of Martha.
Brother Garrett Lush, a member of the governing body will now present the final talk of this symposium.
Imitate women of strong faith, modern-day examples.
Over the years, there were many sisters without standing faith.
Sister Matsui Ishi was one of them.
She was born in Japan in 1909.
Although she grew up in the Buddhist family, she had a thirst for Bible knowledge.
In 1918, the Spanish flu hit her area and she saw lots of coffins with dead bodies.
She and her elders sister both also caught the Spanish flu and the week later her sister died.
She wondered, why do people die and what happens to them at death?
In 1928, when Matsui was 19, her father arranged for her to marry Jesus Ishi a jealous Buddhist.
Matsui was introduced to the truth in Osaka through the book The Heart of God.
That was given to her by a brother who lived in a neighboring house that belonged to the International Bible Students Association.
Matsui was baptized in March 1929 and her husband, Giso, was baptized a short time later.
In June 1939, when she was 30 years old, she and her husband were arrested and were separated from each other.
This certainly called for faith.
She said that she nearly died when she was in solitary confinement for almost a year.
Matsui was released toward the end of 1944 and she was reunited with Giso after World War II ended.
Both she and her husband had remained faithful.
Let us now consider another encouraging example.
Right after World War II ended, far away from Japan in Estonia, Northeastern Europe,
Ella Tom was introduced to the truth in April 1945 and was baptized in August 1946 at age 20.
She was arrested by the Communists on December 27, 1950 and sentenced to imprisonment.
She was sent to a slave labor camp in Russia, the infamous Wakuta camp, above the Arctic Circle,
and later to other prison camps, 250 miles of 400 kilometers southeast of Moscow.
The sisters continued to be spiritually minded.
They made miniature copies of watchtower and put them inside bars of soap and resealed the soap.
This certainly called for faith.
She did not have to serve for 13 years but actually was released on May 4, 1956, after five and a half years.
The year after, she married Brother Lempid Tom.
However, the threat of searches and arrests continued until the preaching work was legalized in Estonia in 1991.
In the following video, note some other details regarding the lives of these two faithful women, Matsui Ishi and Ella Tom.
For nearly a year, I had been held in solitary confinement in a tiny filthy, bug-infested prison cell.
Five and a half years after my arrest, I was released.
If we truly rely on Jehovah, really love him and cry out in a heart for his help,
just as he did not forsake me, he will not forsake his servants.
They arrested me and took me in for questioning.
An interrogator invited me to sign a document stating that I would discontinue preaching.
I said, I would rather live in prison with my relationship with God intact than be free and lose his approval.
My determination has been to heed the Bible admonition.
Trust in Jehovah and do good.
I have learned that doing this leads to receiving the requests of your heart.
How did the sisters Ishi and Tom show faith?
This turned with me to Psalm 37.
Sister Ishi had faith that Jehovah would not abandon her in line with Psalm 37, 25, which reads,
I was once young and now I'm old, but I have not seen anyone righteous abandoned nor his children looking for bread.
Her faith had her to endure difficult tests of integrity.
She was arrested on June 21, 1939 and taken to a police station and put into a dark cell with suit hanging from the ceiling.
The after she was transferred to another location and put into solitary confinement.
Her husband was also arrested and she did not see him until the war had ended.
I nearly died in that cell, she said, but she was exposed to another test too.
When interrogated, she found out from the officials that Junso Akashi, the overseer of the Japan branch, had abandoned the truth.
Sister Ishi replied, Akashi is only an imperfect human.
He is no longer my brother. Sister Ishi remained loyal.
Similarly, Sister Tom from Estonia refused to compromise or to abandon her faith.
She prayed and meditated on Bible principles in order to endure like Psalm 119 verses 97 and 98 say,
How I do love your law, I ponder over it all day long.
Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies because it is with me forever.
In 1949, Ella Tom was arrested by the communists. They took her in for questioning.
She reports, forced to remove all my clothing and being watched by young police officers, I felt humiliated.
Yet after I prayed to Jehovah, peace and calmness of heart came over me.
Next I was put in a tiny cell where I could not even lie down.
I was taken out only for interrogations.
Officers would say, we are not asking you to deny the existence of God.
Just stop your stupid preaching. You can have a promising future.
And they would threaten, quote, Do you want to live or do you want to die with your God on the fields of Siberia?
She said, For three days I was prevented from falling asleep between the repeated interrogations.
Meditation on Bible principles helped me to endure.
Finally an interrogator invited me to sign a document stating that I would discontinue preaching.
I have given this matter much thought, I said.
And I would rather live in prison with my relationship with God intact than to be free and lose his approval.
At that interrogators shouted, You fool.
All of you will be arrested and sent to Siberia.
But she was unexpectedly set free at midnight.
However, was arrested again some time later.
In the following dramatization, note how a brother shows faith like that of sister's issue and tomb.
As the world went from bad to worse, I dug deeper into God's word.
I wanted to stay strong like so many brothers and sisters in the past.
Those who remain faithful had no special abilities and were inconspicuous.
Surely all of us must always trust in Jehovah with all our heart.
I memorized scriptures.
I knew these words would build my faith and give me the strength I needed to face what was to come.
To code this week, as local authorities enforce new restrictions on Jehovah's Witnesses, this is coming just 14 days after this.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good.
Reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah and you will grant you the desires of your heart.
We had to be more discreet, but we never stopped talking about God's word.
We had to face many difficulties, but with God's word embedded in our hearts, we faithfully endured to the end.
How can you imitate the examples discussed in this symposium?
How can you imitate Sarah?
Build faith by meditating on Jehovah's goodness to his people and to you personally.
How can you imitate Rahab?
Take a firm stand for true worship, even if you have only a limited knowledge of the truth.
How to imitate Hannah?
Build faith by taking note of Jehovah's answers to your prayers.
How can you imitate the captive Israelite girl?
Young ones show faith by sharing the good news with schoolmates, teachers, and unbelieving family members.
You can also imitate the mother of Jesus, Mary.
How?
Strengthen your faith and trust in Jehovah.
Carefully examine the scriptures and meditate on them.
How can you imitate the Phoenician woman?
Recognize whom Jehovah is using to do his will and associate yourself with them?
How can you imitate Mary, the sister of Lazarus?
Build faith by considering all that God's word says about His wonderful promises.
The Bible says, Mary, set down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what He was saying.
How can you imitate sister's ishi and the tomb?
Let the power of God's word motivate you to endure faithfully.
When we clearly perceive the great cloud of witnesses surrounding us,
we can run with endurance the race that is set before us as Hebrews 12.
Verse 1 encourages us to do.
Like these faithful women, we can all be included in Jehovah's book of remembrance,
as mentioned at Malachi 3.16 and inherit everlasting blessings.
Thank you, brothers, for those motivating talks.
May we always cherish faithful women just as Jehovah does.
Let's sing together, song number 142, holding fast to our hope.
Again, that's song number 142.